TITLE: SP Case Tracker

Problem:
    For SP I do not know how many cases, what types of cases, what diagnoses, if I found correct diagnosis,
    if I missed a diagnosis, and how many of each diagnosis I have seen.

Objectives:
    1. Create database of cases I have seen with properties:
        a. case identifier (HIPAA??) ***
        b. organ(s)
        c. my main diagnosis
        d. my additional diagnoses
        e. final diagnosis
        f. additional final diagnoses
        g. date (only year)
        h. is_normal
    2. Be able to analyze data to see characteristics of list
    3. Create GUI to visualize this data
    4. Encrypt all data being entered

Short-term goals:
    Make a program to create an excel file/database with cases
    Be able to analyze data
    Make GUI to see data

Long-term goals:
    Encrypt all data being stored
        Users with Passwords
    Make a phone app to add cases while mobile
        Upload picture to case from phone gallery
    Allow searching through list to find similar cases
    Link diagnoses to somewhere like "pathologyoutlines" to reference diagnosis

*** Should be okay per interpretation of HIPAA below:
            "I've answered this myself months after asking here based on HIPAA law (see page 66 - section 164.514).
            To summarize: accession numbers (a unique identifying number) should be removed when de-identifying
            clinical data before being used for research purposes. However, using accession numbers (without connecting
            to detailed patient data) for routine business purposes (in say generating doctor's overdue worklist) over
            unencrypted emails is probably fine, but the law is murky enough that you may want to avoid doing anyway.

            An accession number on its own is a meaningless 6-10 digit number tied to each service done at some
            specific hospital. Without having access to that hospital's specific database that ties accession numbers
            to a specific service done on a specific patient, you cannot identify a patient. You can easily argue in
            this sort of scenario, an accession # is not PHI and HIPAA specifically has an exception for experts
            determining that the risk that this number could be used to identify someone is negligible (as in this case).

            However, if you are de-identifying clinical data (say an actual MRI scan or the detailed test outcome), it
            would be prudent to remove all accession numbers. This prevents someone from using the normal database
            system to see who is tied to an accession number, and then using the poorly de-identified data to get
            detailed records they couldn't otherwise get."
            (https://security.stackexchange.com/questions/14451/is-accession-numberservice-cpt-codedate-of-service-considered-phi-protected)

            Others have decided that they should be hidden:
            "1. Accession numbers: This area was the dominant undermarking error in the first evaluation.
            Pathology laboratories use the accession number, generated by the laboratory information system, as the
            main identifier for specimens and reports. The program removed all accession numbers in the report
            headers, but it is not uncommon to have accession numbers embedded in the text in a variety of places.
            In the initial data set of 967 reports, 103 (10.7%) contained embedded accession numbers. De-Id had not
            attempted to suppress the embedded numbers because the software developers did not understand the nature
            and importance of accession numbers before the evaluation.
            As specimen identifiers, the accession numbers, although not mentioned specifically in the HIPAA safeharbor
            list of identifiers, are associated with a strong potential for patient identification. As a practical
            matter, the effectiveness of an accession number in identifying a patient depends on the origin of the
            accession number and the other information available in the report. Our study identified 3 specific
            situations: (1) UPMC accession numbers: Of the 967 reports examined, 47 reports (4.8%) contained unmasked
            UPMC accession numbers. This was considered a serious breach of confidentiality because virtually anyone
            at UPMC with access to the clinical or laboratory information systems could identify a patient by using
            this number. (2) Non-UPMC accession numbers with information on the outside hospital: Slides and specimens
            often are sent to outside hospitals and consultants for second opinions. The consulting pathologist often
            records the accession number and name of the outside hospital as part of the second-opinion report. Of the
            967 reports, 27 (2.8%) included the “outside accession number” and information about the hospital that
            provided it. This was considered a substantial risk for identification, depending on the amount of
            information available about the outside hospital. (3) Non-UPMC accession numbers with no information on
            the outside hospital: 29 reports (3.0%) included an “orphan” outside accession number (accession number
            without the name of the hospital or laboratory that generated it). Our reviewers considered this a less
            substantial risk for identification."
            Evaluation of a Deidentification (De-Id) Software Engine to Share Pathology Reports and Clinical Documents
            for Research, Gupta et. al., AJCP 2004